# Music and Lyric AI Bot

**Music and Lyric AI Bot** uses artificial intelligence to generate lyrics and music using datasets from various artists

This project utilizes multiple python packages as well as Twiiter's Tweepy API. This project contains
an interactive twitterbot, grammar checker and rhyme generator for our lyrics. 
Using this the Tweepy API, we were able to update the twitter 
status of a twitter account we created specifcally for this project, and respond to
individuals who tweeted a certain phrase. 

In the models folder, you will find a parent class "NGramModel" which serves as the parent
to "trigram", "bigram" and "unigram" which are all utilized in generate. Essentially, we train
data (lines of song lyrics from various artists) into trigrams, bigrams and unigrams. 
These gram models are dictionaries within dictionaries. So the sentence "I'm Bavish"
would have unigrams {"I'm": 1} and {"Bavish": 1} and bigrams {"I'm" : {"Bavish": 1}}. 
The values in these dictionaries refer to occurences of these words. There are no
trigrams because there are only two words in the sentence. We also placed
indicators ("^::^" and "^:::^") for the start of a sentence 
when processing the data. Using these NgramModels we were able to create
a weighted process of finding the next best word to use in a lyrical sentence.
Finally, we added rhymes to the end of the sentence and then checked for grammar.

The music generator utilized pysynth and operated in a similar data processing fashion.

Our interface creates random lyrics and then asks the user for an indicator 
of who to send these lyrics to. So, a mindful user would have some randomly generated
Bob Dylan lyrics sent to someone who recently posted about Bob Dylan. The tweets show 
up immediately under the BATT Productions twitter account. By scraping for more lyrics 
by more musicians, we enhanced our design to incorporate multiple authors. Now,
users can select which authors lyrics they would like and who they would like to send
them to. 

I generated rhymes using the CMU Pronounciation Dictionary. I found the last word
of each phrase and then found all the possible words that rhymed with the word. Then,
we searched the Unigrams for the best possible word to end the sentence and rhymed. 
Finally, the grammar check made sure our rhymes did not become repetitive. 

For the grammatical lyrics aspect of this project, the lyrics generated by generateLyricalSentence are checked in the process of generating the lyrics to ensure they are grammatically accurate. There is a tag function that uses an nltk tagger to tag the words as the lyrics are being generated. There are two functions, after() and during() in which there are grammar rules for English that are used by generateLyricalSentence in order to ensure that the grammar is accurate. These functions use the tagged version of the words.
